---
title: "Sísifo"
comments: true
categories:
- blog

tags:
- blog
- life
- law
- family
---

The day has come for a fresh start. I thought I was too old for the "first day of school feeling", but I was wrong.

I woke up at seven o'clock, feeling pretty well-rested and functioning, which sparked the thought in my head of how I've matured and changed. A couple of years ago that sentence would've been impossible. I stretched and petted the dog, got ready in record time, and joined my mom for our usual morning coffee. 

A little past eight o'clock, I arrived at the train station in Estoril. When I got on the train, there were still some vacant seats, but that changed in no time. From that time on, the commute got very stressful: the subway was even worse and I couldn't get a seat. I think that it'll be hard to get used to this life now, after having spent so much time in Sweden surrounded by nature and very few people. Looking back now, I realize how quiet and peaceful Sweden is and how that repaired me. 

Anyway, when I finally found myself at school, I ordered a coffee. Not only didn't the cafeteria lady not answer my "Bom dia!", but the coffee has also gone up 0,05€ for no good reason. Conclusion: next time I'm going to the other cafeteria. I mean, I'd pay an extra five cents if they included politeness. 

All of this made me a bit moody, as you may be able to tell. Luckily, Matilde arrived shortly after that and joined me. We hugged and started a conversation like we had seen each other yesterday, which is a sign of true friendship when you're friends with someone who lives away from you. Once we started talking, time flew. When I looked at the clock, it was time to go to class. 

This year's first class was Tax Law. It was very interesting for a first class. We refreshed our definition of tax, and then discussed the impact of the European Commission on taxes such as the property (real estate) tax. The professor also made us aware of the difficulty most states have with funding themselves through taxing multinationals, big companies, and the elite since those people get to pick other countries with better tax regimes to move to. That has generated a curious phenomenon where states attempt to "pick" their citizens by offering certain tax benefits. Portugal has been an example for that: we offer a more beneficial regime to pensioners moving in from other European countries, and we've also tried to attract our own young people, who'll get a slight benefit if they choose to return to the country.

After Tax Law, we had Labour Law. We started by learning a bit about etymology, which was interesting, but that was also the only interesting thing about that class. It was very introductory and we didn't really go anywhere.

After class, I sat at (the other) cafeteria to have lunch. I had a São Jorge cheese omelet, cherry tomatoes, and grapes. It was nice and quick, and I also sort of wanted to get away from all the noisy mess with the older students and the freshmen walking around.

Not only did I not get away from it, but I also entered profound boredom. I spent the next hour or so talking to an old classmate who also had a tough semester last year, but maybe I should've been alone to rest my mind a bit. Anyway, a bit after that, I went to the school entrance to sell some of my old books to newer students. Money is nice, I guess, and I'll need warm clothes for the winter. 

The day ended with Business Law class, which was a lot like Labour Law class, as it is taught by the same person. At least we got to leave ten minutes early. 

Once I got back to town, my mom picked me up and brought my cousin Celeste with her. We went to a new, big café in town and had some coffee and a good talk. I really enjoy their company, and it helped improve my day, even though I wouldn't say that it had been terrible so far.

I suppose new beginnings are like this, at least when you're a bit more experienced. Things are not perfect in Law School - the "mold" is still there, although hidden in the minds of some of the people who teach there; the corruption is still there; and injustice is still there, ironically enough. But it's a new chance to make things better for Querido and I. No matter how bad it is, I have my chance to thrive there and I'll take it. So... here's to starting over!

*Recomeça…<br>
Se puderes,<br>
Sem angústia e sem pressa.<br>
E os passos que deres,<br>
Nesse caminho duro<br>
Do futuro,<br>
Dá-os em liberdade.<br>
Enquanto não alcances<br>
Não descanses.<br>
De nenhum fruto queiras só metade.*<br>
-- Miguel Torga, "Sísifo"
## SOTD:
<iframe src="https://open.spotify.com/embed/track/09w53xxRpUuCbkNqyHXMTO" width="300" height="380" frameborder="0" allowtransparency="true" allow="encrypted-media"></iframe>