---
title: "Naudiz"
comments: true
categories:
- blog

tags:
- blog
- life
- du gamla du fria
- sverige
- portugal
- heróis do mar
- travel
---
I didn't wake up all that happy, given the circumstances, but I woke up feeling well rested. Last night we went to visit my svärföräldrar so that I could thank them for the time we spent together before (re)starting my studies. We also brought some sill made with port wine and onion rings so that we could try it out, and also because there would be no point in having sill at home if Querido is by himself. The sill was good, the conversation was also good, but saying goodbye was not, even if it's just for a few months. On a more positive note, though, svärfar offered to drive us to the airport, which makes things much easier. Train schedules can be stressful, especially if there are few direct trains to Göteborg. 

We got up and ready pretty quickly, as svärfar had arrived fifteen minutes early. We got in the car and stopped at a service area to get some coffee before heading to Landvetter, because I'd have a hard time functioning otherwise. The travel went pretty smoothly and we got to the airport quickly. Perhaps a bit too quickly for someone like me, who hates to say goodbye. 

Querido walked with me to the airport and we took some minutes to say goodbye. I'm sure there were a lot of people at the airport, but I didn't notice anyone until it was time to get my luggage checked - and even then, the security guy asked me if I was doing alright. I probably looked nervous and sad, so maybe he thought that I was a drug mule... it's not the first time that has happened, but it's always unironically pretty amusing. 

During the flight to Frankfurt and my layover I decided to get back to reading For Whom the Bell Tolls. Actually, that's what I spent both of my flights to Lisbon doing, so that my mind would be occupied with something interesting, instead of focusing on the saudade. I didn't finish the book yet - I have about 90 pages left - but I've really enjoyed it thus far. The introduction to the characters is a bit slow and boring at first, but once you start "living" with them and focusing on their mission, it becomes a book that you don't want to put down.

When the plane arrived to Lisbon, we had some technical difficulties regarding the exit, which meant staying in the plane for about thirty minutes. Once I was allowed to leave, I quickly made my way to the parking lot to meet Lucky and my parents. Usually, Lucky gets a bit "distance-mad" at me, but that didn't happen this time and he slept on my lap all the way to Cascais. 

When I got to my parents' place, I gave them some Dammsugare that I had brought from Sweden, took a long warm shower, and called my husband. 

The next few months will be hard, but I also think they'll be worth it. "Após a tempestade, vem a bonança", as we say in Portugal. 

## SOTD:
<iframe src="https://open.spotify.com/embed/track/4leRr7JCOulwlGBPUtuqFe" width="300" height="380" frameborder="0" allowtransparency="true" allow="encrypted-media"></iframe>